>> Mike North: If we did want to provide
TypeScript within explicit indication
of what type this is, we could provide
what is called a type annotation.
And you'll see here, after the name
of the variable we have a colon and
then the type of the variable.
So you'll see that convention over and
over and over again.
You'll get used to seeing
that very quickly.
This can be used anywhere
variables declared,
anywhere a function parameters is defined.
We'll see it in a bunch of places.
So in some situations
we run into cases where
the type that something returns is
not what we're interested in, and
to get around that,
we perform what is called casting.
This is a form of explicitly converting
something from one type to another.
You're basically telling typed script,
hey,
I'm the developer I know what I'm doing.
In this case, because querySelector has
the potential to return metatags and
image tags, and dibs, and spans, and
inputs, the type that it
actually returns is just element.
But we know based on the argument we
passed in, this is definitely going to be,
it'll be either undefined or
a html input element.
It's going to be one or the other.
We can say,
treat this as an html input element.
I know that's what I'm getting at.
>> Mike North: So.
What we have on top here this
is the advised way to do it,
to use this as keyword.
Down low you'll see this
alternate way of casting.
This as the advised way for
a long time, but as soon
as JSX started becoming popular and
if you've been working with React at all.
You may see that this could be interpreted
as something else in the React world.
So that's why we have this,
that's why the best practice
has changed to this as secured.
You do still see the bottom
one in some cases.
>> Mike North: So when we start working
with functions, you get those type
annotations just as we did when we
were defining the types of variables.
You see we've got argument types here,
and we've got a return type.
And we're saying the log in function takes
in the user's name and the password,
both strings, and
the return type is the user.
Now we can also have
an arrow function style
of defining a function, and
it is basically the same.
Just note that the arrow
comes after the return type.